 
 PRADHAN MANTRI UCHCHATAR SHIKSHA PROTSAHAN (PM -USP) YOJANA  
GUIDELINES FOR THE COMPONENT SCHEME –  
CENTRAL SECTOR SCHEME OF SCHOLARSHIP FOR COLLEGE AND 
UNIVERSITY STUDENTS  (PM -USP CSSS)  
 
(Applicable for academic year 2022 -23 onwards ) 
 
1.        Objective  
To provide financial assistance to meritorious students from poor families to meet a 
part of their day -to-day expenses while pursuing higher studies.  
 
2.        Scope  
The scholarships are awarded by Ministry of Education , Government of India  on the 
basis o f results of Higher  Secondary / Class XII Board Examination.   A maximum of 
82,000 fresh scholarships per annum are provided  for pursuing graduate / 
postgraduate degree in colleges and universities and for professional courses, such as 
Medical, Engineering etc. 
 
3.        Allocation of Scholarship  
The total number of scholarships are divided amongst the State Education Boards 
based on the State’s population in the age group of 18 -25 years, after segregating 
share of CBSE and ICSE on the basis of number of st udents passing out from vari ous 
Boards in the country.   50% of the scholarships are earmarked for girls.   Out of the 
total scholarship slots earmarked for UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, 3% slots 
shall be earmarked  for the students from the UT of Ladakh.  The number of 
scholarships allotted to a State Education Board is distributed amongst pass outs of 
the Humanities , Science and Commerce streams in the ratio of 3 :3:1. In case of 
shortfall in the number of applications, the scholarship slots shall  be interoperable 
among categories  (Gen, OBC, SC & ST), gender (Female, Male) and State Quota to 
maximize use of slots for fresh scholarships with effect from academic year 2022 -23, 
subject to the condition that guidelines of Ministry of Finance and NITI Aayog 
regarding S C/ST fund allocation of the schemes are adhered to . 
 
4.        Eligibility for Scholarship  
i. Students who are above 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant 
stream from the respective Board of Examination in Class XII of 10+2  pattern or 
equivalent;  